DEVDOCS-2591: Sample App Tutorial (#1162)
bigcommerce/dev-docs: docs/api-docs/apps/tutorials/sample-app-next/step-3-integrate-api.md

# Step 3: Integrate the BigCommerce API and Add a Database

<div class="otp" id="no-index">

### On this page
- [Install npm packages](#install-npm-packages)
- [Add TypeScript definitions](#add-typescript-definitions)
- [Initialize React Context](#initialize-react-context)
- [Update environment variables](#update-environment-variables)
- [Update the auth lib page](#update-the-auth-lib-page)
- [Add a database](#add-a-database)
- [Set up Firebase database](#set-up-firebase-database)
- [Set up MySQL database](#set-up-mysql-database)

> - [Set up the db lib page](#setup-the-db-lib-page)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Set up the db lib page](#set-up-the-db-lib-page)
```

- [Upgrade the endpoints](#upgrade-the-endpoints)
- [Add the Products endpoint](#add-the-products-endpoint)
- [Create a custom hook](#create-a-custom-hook)
- [Create a header component](#create-a-header-component)
- [Update the homepage](#update-the-homepage)
- [Update the user interface](#update-the-user-interface)
- [Test your app](#test-your-app)

</div>

> After you have embedded your app in the BigCommerce platform, the next step is to integrate the BigCommerce API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have embedded your app in the BigCommerce platform, you're ready to integrate the BigCommerce API.
```

Anytime you make an API call to BigCommerce, you need to pass in the access token. Storing the access token in a database will allow you to persist the session when you call `/auth`, `/load`, or `/uninstall` endpoints. 

> In the purview of this tutorial, we will demonstrate how to integrate your app with [Cloud Firestore](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/quickstart), a cloud-hosted NoSQLFirebase database, and [MySQL](https://www.mysql.com/), a relational database management system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, we will demonstrate how to integrate your app with [Cloud Firestore](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore/quickstart), a cloud-hosted NoSQLFirebase database, and [MySQL](https://www.mysql.com/), a relational database management system.
```

}

export function getBCVerify({ signed_payload }: QueryParams) {
    return bigcommerceSigned.verify(signed_payload);
}
``` 

8. Add the `setSession`, `getSession`, and `removeSession` functions.

```js
export async function setSession(session: SessionProps) {
    db.setUser(session);
    db.setStore(session);
}

export async function getSession({ query: { context = '' } }: NextApiRequest) {
    if (typeof context !== 'string') return;
    const decodedContext = decodePayload(context)?.context;
    const accessToken = await db.getStoreToken(decodedContext);

    return { accessToken, storeHash: decodedContext };
}

export async function removeSession(res: NextApiResponse, session: SessionProps) {
    await db.deleteStore(session);
}
```

9. Add the `encodePayload` and `decodePayload` functions.

```js
export function encodePayload(context: string) {
    return jwt.sign({ context }, JWT_KEY, { expiresIn: '24h' });
}

export function decodePayload(encodedContext: string) {
    return jwt.verify(encodedContext, JWT_KEY);
}
```

[View code in GitHub](https://github.com/bigcommerce/sample-app-nodejs/blob/step-3-add-database/lib/auth.ts)

## Add a database

> In the purview of this tutorial, we will provide config and initialization code for both Firebase and MySQL databases. Depending on the database you choose to integrate your app with, use the configuration instructions specific to your setup. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section of the tutorial, we will provide config and initialization code for both Firebase and MySQL databases. Depending on the database you choose to integrate your app with, use the configuration instructions specific to your setup. 
```
